# Our First Test

We already have this dinosaur class and it's pretty simple, but when it comes to dinosaurs, bug or code can be, Hmm, a bit painful. I think we should add some basic tests to make sure this class is doing everything it's supposed to. So where do we put this new test at? When we, you can actually put your tests anywheres, but when we installed symphony test pack, Symphony's flex created this test directory force, and this is the recommended place to put your tests. Remember we're only dealing with unit tests, so let's create a new directory unit. And inside that directory, we're gonna create another one inside that directory. We're gonna create another one called entity. The reason we're creating this entity directory is because we want our test structure to mirror our source structure. In this case, dinosaur lives in the entity name space. So we're gonna do the same thing here. Now let's create a new class. We'll call it Dino shore test. And it's important to remember that all of your test classes must end with the word test and they also need to extend PHP units test case. Now let's go ahead and write a simple test to make sure everything's working. So

Public function test. It works. If you're using return types, which are not required, void is the return type to use for your tests inside this method, let's assert equals that 42 is the same as 42. Move over to your terminal type in vendor bin PHP unit enter he awesome. We have one test and one assertion PHP. Unit's one test that's saying right here, these are all of our test methods within the test classes that PHP unit has ran. The one assertion are the individual assertions across all of our test methods. So we have one test and one assertion, and what's an assertion. These are basically methods that are provided by PHP units test case that allow us to compare assertions are methods that are provided by PHB unit's test case that determine if an actual value matches an expected value. In this case, we wanna make sure that our 42 is what we expect matches the 42. That was the actual value. The two most common assertions that we'll use are assert same and assert equals for fullest of assertions. Move back to your browser, move back to your browser. Let's open up a new tab and go to PHP. Unit dot, read the docs.io.

This is all the documentation for PHP unit, but for assertions, we can look at our appendix click on assertions and look at them all. Yeah, look at 'em all the, okay. Back in our test. So how did PHP unit know that this is a test? When we call P vendor bend PHP, unit PHP unit does three things. First, it looks for it's configuration file, which is a pH unit dot XL disc. And it's looking for the test directory and side within our test suites. We have a directory test. Now that PHP, now that PHP unit knows where to find the tests looks in our project structure finds the test directory and it scans recursively through the directory for any classes that end with the word test in this case, dinosaur test, once it finds out the test class, it starts looking at all the public methods within the class, but does it run all of the public methods? Well, let's find out it's create a new public function. It works the same can void, and we are going to assert same that 42, the same as 42. Move back to your terminal and let's run these tests again,

Huh? We have one test and one looking at her test. We have two tests and two assertions. The differences that the second test method, it's not doesn't it doesn't start with test. So PHP unit only looks for public public methods that are prefixed with the word test. You could also use PHP units, annotation. You could also use PHP units at test annotation, but it's not commonly used. So we just stick with the, uh, test method. Prefix. Let's try this out, come back over here. Vendor bin PHP unit, and now we have two tests and two assertions. Awesome. So what happens when a test fails? Well, let's change our 42 to a string and we'll do the same thing with search. Same move back to your terminal run PHP unit. Again, he, there we go. There is one failure dinosaur test test. It works the same failed asserting that 42 is identical to 42, but this assert equals method passed. But our assert same method failed that's because with PHP unit assert equals is the equivalent to doing an if 42 equal using the double equals sign 42, whereas a search same, whereas a search same is doing if 42 is equal with three equal signs, 42

In, in regular PHP code, this is going to fail. This is going to return false. Whereas the cert equals a 42 string does equal a 42 integer with type casting.

We already have this dinosaur class and it's pretty simple, but when it comes to dinosaurs, bugs in our code can be, Hmm. A bit painful. I think we should add some.

