# PHPUnit Install

Hi, and welcome to PHP unit testing with a bite Dyna Toia has a super simple app that helps keep track of their dinos, but among other things that need some tests. And that's what this series will be focusing on. So let's dive right in on this page, click download code to download the code needed for this tutorial. After you unzip the file, take a look at the readme doc, which has all of the setup instructions. The last step will be to open up a terminal and type in symphony serve dash D, which will start up a local web server. And it is pointing to 1, 2 7 0.0 0.0 0.1 on port 8,000. So move over to your browser, open a tab, and let's go to local host port 8,000. And yes, here we have it. Theon atop status. Very simple app has the name of our dinos, the genus, the size, which I think is in meters and the enclosure that each of the dinos are in down here. We have a link to gin lab's secret Dino repository,

And this is where the engineers at gin lab regularly update their GitHub repository to let Bob or resident park ranger know which downers are feeling good, need their medicine or have escaped. Huh? I hope GitHub doesn't go offline. When that happens. It's never a good day when you're running away from big Edy or somewhat laid back. T-Rex it's also not fun. A fun time for Bob when he is well, it's never a good day when you're running away from big Edy or somewhat laid back. T-Rex it's also not a fun time for Bob when he keeps trying to give medicine to healthy dinos. And that's where we come in. Let's take a look,

Have one controller and one dinosaur class, but again, none of this has any tests and that's where we come in. We're gonna help out Bob by adding some good old fashioned automation into our app. And more importantly, make sure that our app has plenty of tests by the time we're done this app will be a bit more human friendly and best of all, it'll show, which S dinos are accepting lunch. <laugh> I mean, visitors tests, don't worry. Testing could be intimidating after all. There are many, after all, there are many kinds of tests, unit tests, functional tests, integration tests, acceptance tests. The list is almost endless. And we're actually gonna talk about all of these in this series, but in this first tutorial, we're gonna zoom in on unit tests, which are tests that cover one specific piece of code. We'll kick it off by writing some tests for a dinosaur class. How do we do that? Move over to your terminal?

Well,

How do we do that by installing PHP? Uh, no. By installing PHP de facto standard testing tool, PHP unit move over to your terminal type in symphony type in composer require dash dash dev symphony test pack, test back includes PHP unit, which is all we need for now, but it also comes with some other stuff that'll come in handy later on. If we look at the Git status, we can see that, uh, symphony flex has added a couple of files and modified some already existing ones. We can ignore. Most of we can ignore these for now, but as we progress through the testing series, we'll cover these files as they become more relevant.

